From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes.
Oh, weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 61 recorded live
Thursday, April 7th, 2011. Support for Hanselman
it's. This provided by Tellerik
R a D control the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with Phil
hack about the new releases
and the web platform and
tools division. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman, and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes,
and this is the Hansel
minutes mixed keynote edition by
that, I mean that if
you're listening to this, it
is after the mixer keynote
and Scott goo has said
something on stage and Phil
hack is here to talk
to me about it. How's
it going? Phil chilling, chilling.
What did we release today?
My friend in the web
platform and tools division, We
released a whole bunch of
products, the ones near and
dear to me, our asp.net,
NBC three tools update, which
includes new get 1.2. But
I believe we also released
the new versions of rice
express and a ESPN at
webpages. And what matrix? I
can't even listen 4.1. The
whole, all the web stack
of love is, is complete.
Exactly. We've been working real
hard on that and a
pretty tired. Yep, absolutely. So
ASP net MVC three, but
you said tools refresh and
you said it really slowly,
like it was important. What
does that mean? What is
the tools refresh? Well, we're
calling it a tools update,
but you know, same thing,
right? What it means is
that the runtime has not
changed at all. So this
is, we just released asp.net
MVC three in January, and
that, you know, releasing that
was kind of a quick
release from embassy to less
than a year away. And
a lot of times people,
you know, have this tension
when we release a new
version of the framework, cause
it's something new to learn
know, do they need to
upgrade all their existing systems?
People need to write books
or articles about it and
so on. And so releasing
a framework to often can,
you know, a fully RTM
supportive framework too often can
often cause tension. So we
wanted to make it clear
that this release is not
a new version of the
NBC runtime, the MPC framework.
Instead, what we did is
we took all the great
tooling that we had and
we improved it and we
added things like scaffolding into
the, in the box, into
the NBC three tooling. So
now if you go in
and add controller and you
select one of your model
types, we can scaffold the
data access code, assuming entity
framework code first, which is
also in the box now
and build out, you know,
your, all your crud, your
create, read, update, and delete
views. Okay. So, so there's
the stuff that happens at
runtime. And that's what you
call the MVC runtime. Those
are the bits that you
install on your server, and
then there's the stuff that
happens before you compile. So
this is a refreshed, all
that stuff that happens before
you compile dialogue boxes, right?
Click menus and all that
stuff. You said scaffolding. I
did a demo at PDC
where I took some stuff
that David Debow and David Fowler
did and kind of wrote
some scaffolding and with T
four and that command line.
And I know that then
Steve Sanderson joined the team.
And the first thing that
Steve Sanderson did was work
on scaffolding. Was that like
part of a larger master
plan that span centuries, or
was that one of those
things where something that, you
know, you as the, as
the PM for MVC said,
Hey, this would be cool.
Let's take this thing that
Ebo and Fowler and those
guys are messing with and
just make it in the
product or were they doing
it because it was part
of the master plan. A
little of both, I'd say,
I think the master plan
all along has always been
to have scaffolding in the
product, right? And I could
show balsamic mockups of that
from years ago. And it
was just a matter of,
you know, timing and other
priorities coming up and wanting
to get the framework to
a good point where we
felt as recently baked. And
then, you know, the time
is right now to bring
in scaffolding. What the part
that I think is a
little more serendipity is how
nougat figures into it. So
we released nougat and suddenly
people were writing all these
really cool packages like Fowler
and Sanderson, where they added
really cool commands to the
PowerShell console that new gear
brings into visual studio, right?
So a package like NBC
scaffolding, you can install it.
And it, as these really
cool new commands like scaffold
controller. And then we had
this thought of what, if
we built scaffolding into the
product and we give you
a default scaffolding experience, but
you could extend that experience
by installing new, get packages
such as MPC scaffolding. And
so that's a real cool
thing is if you right
click app controller and you
look at the drop down
of the different scaffold templates,
there's three of them by
default, there's like the empty
one, which is kind of
like what you have before
this update. There's the scaffold,
your, you know, crud with
entity framework code first. And
then there's a Scud, some
empty placeholder ones, sorry, scaffold
some empty it's ought to
be the new word for
that Crud and scaffolding is
now Scott. I think that
don't make the missiles might
disagree. Oh yeah. It was
a Scud missile. Remember that?
I remember that. So the,
so the scaffolding is the
IX is a, is a
concept it's, there's, there's two
separate pieces though. There's the
stuff that's built in. That's
underneath the dialog box that
ships with it. And then
there's the extensibility because almost
every dropdown box in MVC
three's tooling is extensible. Right?
That's been something that you've
been talking about since MVC
one, the testing dropped down,
the views dropped down and
now the controller scaffolding dropped
down. That's right. That's right.
So what happens when you
install MVC scaffolding, that new
get package, we add new
templates, new scaffolding templates in
there. So then you'll get
the option for example, to
scaffold your model and controller
and views with a repository
pattern. Now, someone else can
go out there and write
their own new, get package
that will add templates in
there to scaffold entity framework
or a subsonic. Or now
there's a new one called
dapper. So, you know, you
could, whatever framework, data, access
technology, you like, you can
write a T a T
for template for it that
will integrate into our ad
controller dialogue. And you can
get it into there by
using new get. So it's
kind of this nice, you
know, all around story there
In the past, we we've
shown people stuff like the
test dropped down and said,
you can put, you know,
you could put something in
here and we've shown them
the F the views dropped
down, but I haven't felt
like those things really kind
of exploded. They never really
became huge, like four or
five really big projects got
in those dropdowns, you know,
like, and unit and things
like an MBA unit. And
on the, on the view
side, things like spark. Do
you, but do you think
that's because of the nature
of the things that were
extensible, like testing frameworks and
views that caused those not
to like fill up with
a hundred different options and
do you think this will
be different? Yeah, I think
it is a nature of
those things. Like there, there
aren't a hundred different unit
test frameworks, right. And there's
only very few so that
in a way that the
people who would write a
custom unit test dialogue are
very few. And also we
haven't really made the experience
super easy yet. You know,
we figured that's more of
an advanced and case, but
even with the test dialogue,
I do see good uses
of the average person like
the non, you know, I
don't, I'm not a person
who writes the unit test
frameworks, but I can take
the existing test framework, add
in my own test libraries
into there. And now I
have a new custom one
in my mix talk, I'm
planning to show an example.
One of the other things
that's extensible is when you
click new MVC three project,
you actually get a list
view of different project types.
And then the tools that
they, we added a new
one called intranet project. And
I always tell people, you
can put your own custom
project templates in there. So
my talk, I'm going to
actually show you how, because
that's one of the things
that's been missing is, Oh
yeah, you can put something
in there, but I don't
have time to show you
how to do it. So
this time we'll show you
how to do it. And
then things like with scaffolding,
I think you will see
a little more cause people
have strong opinions of how
code the code to get
January. Yeah. There's a lot
of white space in that
dialogue box. It'd be nice
to start putting stuff in
there. Yeah. And we're slowly
doing that over time. Right.
When we introduced it. And
then we see three, there
was two. Now with the
tools update, there's three. Maybe
if we release a tools,
update, update, there'll be four
or five. Well, that would
be releasing a tool update
update would be incredibly Microsoft
EFS to do, we'd have
to call it the September
refresh tool. I think if
we did that, I, it
would probably drive me to
my desk bed. Now, why
didn't you call it NBC
3.1? You know, we thought
about that, but the, we
received a lot of feedback
when we kind of ran
that by insiders and MVPs,
that it made them feel
tense, kind of what I
was talking about earlier, it
made them feel like it's
a revision to the framework.
And thus, now it's something
more that they're going to
get asked about and people
are going to have confusion
about, Oh, what framework am
I on? You know, I
deployed NBC three to the
frame, to my server. Are
you on three? Are you
on 3.1? And we're like,
well, no, 3.1 is the
same framework. Oh, I didn't
know that. You know, like,
so we wanted to avoid
that situation. So we call
it tools, update to make
it crystal clear. At least
we hope crystal clear that
there's no runtime changes. So
we hope nobody ever asked
the question, Oh, what do
you have on your server?
Do you have NBC three
or embassy three tools update
because it's the same server
assembly. No, I noticing that
there's lots of, there's lots
of new stuff coming out.
And I've been using this
metaphor lately about Lego pieces.
Right. And how before we
used to release these big
Lego pieces and just kind
of like drop them on
you and be like, here's
SharePoint, you know, virus SharePoint
is more like a fully
constructed yeah. Fully completed model,
right. Blew together. But you
know, but lately though, with,
you know, with old data,
with these smaller pieces, new
get eyes express, equal Compaq
and any framework, there's a,
there's something that's happening. Things
are happening out of band
right out of band is
what we mean when we
say not at the same
time as visual studio, remember
visual studio 2010 came out.
Was it last October? Yeah.
So that was not very
long ago. So visual studio,
2010 came out last year,
right? That's the cooler last
April. It's been a year
that's October, October. Anyway, the
point is, this is true.
The 2010 came out and
stuff keeps coming out. So
I think that there's two
interesting things about that one,
which is the, what is
the public's ability to absorb
this much stuff. Right. You
know, is there too much
too fast? And then there's
also the, the idea that
I don't know what version
of, what thing fits together
and works together and what
version of what thing I
have. Cause there's SQL compact
for entity framework 4.1, NVC
three. Do you think that
there's a need to like
draw a circle around it
and name it or are
people already used to using
stacks that are not Microsoft
that have all different versions
and all different names? That's
sort of a good question.
I kinda like a little
bit of both. I sorta
group products into different types
of things. You know, like
the, you could call it
the angst level, right? When
a new version of a
browser comes out, the anx
level is relatively low because
it's just something you use.
Right? You don't have mission
critical systems deployed on a
browser in the same way
you would on a framework
version. So the new framework
version comes out. Okay. You
can give me that example.
So I don't like Chrome
updating every week, because what
if it breaks my intranet
site? Okay, good, good point.
I'm thinking more along the
lines of, yeah. Chrome comes
out every month, right. And
nobody like, you know, loses
a wink of sleep about
that. But, but if the
new, if a new version
of windows came out every
month, you would lose a
lot of sleep because everything
runs on it. Right? Like
your, your, your web server
runs on it now, internet,
internet issue aside, what an
intranet typically would do is
just ignore those releases. Right.
And say, we're on this
version. Yeah. And they roll
it out. So ignore all
these other ones. We don't
care. But, But there's a
test. There's a testing burden
there. Right? I mean, Chrome
does come out every month
or depending on what branch
you're on every week. And
UHIN two comes out every
six months like clockwork, you
know, windows seems to be
coming out every year or
two, three, depending on how
you want to look at
it. There's service packs and
stuff. But like new get,
you guys are releasing new
versions of new, get monthly,
you know, there's a couple
of things to deal with.
I say, give or take
a week, a couple of
weeks here and there. But
yeah, that's, that's what we'd
like to do for the,
for now. Hi, this is
Scott coming to you from
another place in time. Are
you using agile practices to
manage your software development? There's
lots of tools in the
market that manage the steps
of a project, but most
of them focus on individual
roles. Get ready for a
solution that caters for the
success of the whole team.
Guys at Tellerik introduced team
pulse. It's an agile project
management tool. That'll help you
gather ideas, estimate plan, track
progress in a common workspace.
Finally companies, regardless of their
size can use a lightweight
and convenient tool that makes
all the stakeholders work as
a United team. Even if
they're in different countries by
combining intuitive energy interface and
the power server light team
poles removes the roadblocks that
you typically and applying agile
in an effective manner, no
more lost data, no disparate
systems, no lack of critical
analytics regarding the health and
philosophy project. See if yourself
get a free copy for
five users in one project
at tellerik.com/team pulse. And please
do thank Tellerik for supporting
Hanselman it's on their Facebook
fan page, facebook.com/t L E
R I K coloring. We
do appreciate it. They wouldn't
be a handsome and it's,
if there wasn't, Tellerik helping
us. So there's a couple
of things to deal with.
There there's the public has
to understand what version they're
on or people might argue
in the, in the instance
of things like Chrome, they
don't right. If your, if
your update system is absolutely
effective in that everyone gets
updated, then you can bury
the version number. Do you
hope to get things like
new, get that are more
kind of utilities to the
point where they'll automatically update
themselves and, and, and people
won't even think about it.
Yeah. Yeah. So that's a
really good example of like
new you get compared to
NBC, right? NBC, we, I
don't think we would release
an RTM version every month,
right. Because that would just
drive people nuts. You know,
like what version am I
on? Like, that's the kind
of thing that you kind
of have to know and
people wouldn't want the production
servers automatically updating to the
latest monthly release of NBC.
Whereas new get is as
you kind of, as you
succinctly put it is before
the compile, right. NBC is
after the compile and you
get before the compile. So
things that happen before the
compile, you have a little
more leeway and releasing often.
And so one of the
things we're looking at in
new Nuka is for the
next version and you get,
we're going to put in
our own check to make
sure that, to tell you
whether you're on the latest
version or not. So we're
going to make it a
little more in your face
that you notice it, but
we're not at the point
where we feel comfortable auto
updating you simply because people
might have new get integrated
into their build systems. And
they might want to kind
of like with the internet,
they might want to lock
on a particular version for
a period of time. But
most developers who are just,
you know, coding on open
source projects at home or
their own projects or, or
working in small shops may
want to just always take
the latest version. And there's
a lot of benefits to
taking the latest version. For
example, sometimes we introduce new
features in, into packages themselves.
So if you build a
package, for example, with new,
get 1.2 and you use
one of the new features
of new, get 1.2 in
your package, right? You can't
install that package with 1.1.
Oh, I see. I see.
So the package at the
time you try to install
it, you'll say, sorry, this
has a feature that uses
one too. You need to
upgrade. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. And
there's different models for upgrades.
Like there's the Xbox model
where it basically it's forced,
right? You're all on the
latest version. And then there's
the windows that they model
where you get to choose,
but they try to push
it on you. And then
there's the different types of
like, you know, Firefox extension
modules, where we'll just nag
you about the extension about
the update. And we're kind
of trying to figure out
what's the best one, which
one will users be okay
with? And right now we
think we'll try this thing
where we make it a
little more noticeable and hope
that people will be and
continue to provide compelling features.
So that you'll really want
to upgrade to the latest
version. Right? Speaking of updates,
the, the web platform installer
came out version three, a
little while back. And one
of the things that was
a little bit interesting about
this last kind of this
bundle release that we've got
here, right, is if you
go to like to the
asp.net website and you go
to the downloads page, we
released actually a new refreshed
version of the asp.net website.
We'll be updating the styles
and making it prettier in
the future. But we redesigned
the MVC web pages and
web form learning centers on
them are links to download
this stuff. And this is
something that I think is
interesting about this bundle is
that there's really no easy
way to kind of get
it all. Or at least
there isn't an obvious one,
maybe because we're not telling
enough people, but it turns
out that the best way
to get all of this
stuff is web platform installer.
I think a lot of
people thought it was going
to be in service pack
one, but there was going
to like, like we call
it slipstreaming right. It was
going to you install service
pack one of visual studio
and you get all this
stuff. And there were a
lot of discussions back and
forth about whether that was
a good idea. Right. Do,
do you give them all
the new stuff in a
service pack or do you
fix the bugs primarily? And
then they go and they
hunt the new stuff down.
And I don't know. I
mean, in, in windows, as
we had gotten at three,
five S P one, we
imposed new stuff upon them
because it came along for
the ride, but it also
made for a very large
surface pack. Yeah. I'm, I'm
kind of in the camp
and this is just my
personal opinion. I don't get
to make those decisions way
above my pay grade, but
I'm, I'm in the camp
that service pack should focus
mostly on bug fixes. You
know, it might have a
little bit of new stuff,
like maybe especially like improvements
to existing user experiences. I
really don't like cramming a
bunch of features in because
those features then made themselves
have bugs that would have,
would be passionate the future
service pack. Right. And I'd
rather have the full on
versions, have the new stuff.
And then in between ship
stuff, out of band, Right,
right. The more stuff you
sneak into a service pack,
the more stuff the next
service pack has to fix,
if there's a problem, but
on the, on the asp.net
website, if you click on
that big button, what it'll
do is it'll launch web
platform installer, and this is
actually a new, what they
call a new application ID.
It's a new bundle that
we released today. This is
custom. And what this will
do is if you have
nothing on your machine, it
will give you the free
version of visual studio, all
of these tools and service
pack one all at once.
But if you do have
visual studio one, right, this
is a custom builder, the
pro pack. Before you had
to pick visual studio express
or pro you had to
tell them, and sometimes people
would end up like I
have on my machine right
now, both visual studio express,
the free version and visual
studio ultimate because visual studio
express got installed. One time
when I ran a link
from the asp.net website, I
said, Oh, I want the
free tools. And I got
a bunch of stuff I
didn't want. So we have
a new, a new link
on the page that will
automatically do the right thing.
It'll update you to service
pack one, give you all
the latest tools. That means
I as express compact edition
for tools for that NBC
three, a new tools, new
get in the framework, everything.
And it won't automatically put
visual studio expression, your machine,
unless you explicitly want it.
Oh, that's good. That's good.
Yeah. Then they're calling it
kind of the pro pack.
You know, I call it
the web platform of love,
but the point is it's
Naming our products. I like
your names better, Dude. If
we seriously, if Microsoft named
stuff like magic unicorn and
the entity framework, the web
stack of love, we should,
Oh my goodness. At least
we got new. Get, that
was something that could have
been a, it could have
been like.net pack or something.
Lame Could have been Microsoft
package manager for the.net framework.
Yeah. I mean, I don't
know why they didn't go
with, you know, awesome addition
and then said, they said,
I S express. But if
they never listened to us,
as you said, it's so
much higher above our pay
grade, We need to work
harder here at, at getting
planning, these ideas in people's
heads, you know? Yeah. Definitely
Old men trying to make
things happen. Well, you know,
we're, we're pushing slowly and
like, like you and I
have always talked about if
we can't, if we fail
to get Microsoft to change,
if we push as hard
as we can and we've
pushed as hard and that's
it, it's not going to
change any more than we'll
quit. We'll do something else
to Seattle right now. I
know what you mean. I
was thinking, like I just
said, we're old and I
know you're going to have
colleagues are going to say,
you're not old. I was
started programming with a slide
rule and someone else would
call in and say, I
was pair programming with Archimedes.
But as hard as we've
been working lately to get
this stack of love out
there, you know, I feel
like I've aged a year
in the past, you know,
three months between NBC three
RTM and this tools update.
It's interesting to watch your
gray hair develop just as
a guy watching, you know
what I mean, from the
outside here and watching your
hair turn gray slowly Before
and after pictures of presidents,
right? Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
It's interesting because you, you
so want it to succeed.
You know what I mean?
We want this stuff to
go over well and you
know, every decision that someone
tweets about, Oh, this sucks.
Why don't you do that?
You know, there's a story
behind it. There's a process
behind it. There's the good
and the bad there's know
meetings with Scott GU and
meetings with legal and all
this kind of stuff to
get, you know, even to
get a button or a
checkbox. And we keep trying
to change the processes within
Microsoft, but it's slow, Slow.
And also there's all that
extra time you put in,
like, there's, there's two levels,
right? There's good enough to
ship. And then there's how
I want it to be
where I think customers will
be really excited about it.
So like, I could, I
could design a feature and
then say, yeah, that's good
enough that'll ship. But then
most of the time I'd
like to go to the
extra effort and say, Oh,
we need to, you know,
really think through how people
are gonna use this. Let's
talk to the customers. Obviously
like w w what I
love about working on new
get is because it's truly
an open source project. We
accept external contributions. We have
all of our discussions on
Plex. I can really, you
know, get feedback really early
from people who are out
there in the trenches doing,
using it and using it
in ways I had never
anticipated because as many different
ways as there are to
write software, there's just as
many different ways to build
it. And by build, I
mean, like build systems and,
and what you're trying to
automate and what you're trying
to do that, you know,
I always thought, Oh, I
have a lot of experience
building software. I know how
most people build it, but
as I'm going through these
discussions with people, they're coming
up with diff, they have
such different range of scenarios
and things that they're trying
to do that I had
never even anticipated. So it's
been a really great learning
process. And I hope, you
know, two things, one that
the community feels like they're
really involved. And if they're
not, it's so easy, just
get into our discussion, start
telling us, you know, what
you think we should do.
And two, I hope that
we're agile enough and iterating
enough that we're solving the,
the vast majority of those
pain points and, and creating
really great experiences for our
customers. That's kind of what
makes me motivated in the
morning to get back to
work. You know, How, how
much, when you're building the
stack of love, how much
do you think about any
more now? That's cause you,
cause you didn't, you did
move from LA up to
Seattle about becoming a Microsoft,
you know, the Borg, how
much do you worry about
that? Do you ever catch
yourself thinking, thinking too, too
much like a classic kind
of stereotypical Microsoft person. And
do you, do you count
on, you know, your friends
like me or whoever to
tell you, Hey, failure, you're
assimilated. You just said that
you were super excited about
something, or do you not
think about that? That's a
really Interesting question. I'll have
to process that and make
an ask of my manager
to see if No, but
you know, it's an honest
question though, because sometimes I
feel like when a Microsoft
person says, you know, I'm
really excited to provide customer
value. They mean it sincerely,
but it comes off as
Microsoft. It comes off slimy.
I'm not saying I worry
about it to some degree,
but I mean, I feel
like I, I, I try
hard to keep to my
roots. I mean, I feel
like I'm still a customer
because I'm still working on
these projects that are my
own. The only problem is
I'm so busy at work.
I don't get to work
on them all that often
like Subutex, but I still
work on it. And when
I work on that, I
feel I put my I'm
back in the customer hat.
I'm looking at things that
are, Hey, this is painful.
You know, this, and, and
in many respects, like my
motivation isn't, you know, like
while I do want to
increase customer value, blah, blah,
blah, the marketing side. But
there's also that side where
I feel like all these
guys are my, all these
people are my peers, right?
These customers, you know, we
call them, but they're my
peers and I'm on Twitter
with them. And I'm in,
you know, on the block
in the blogosphere, if you
want to still call it
that with them. And I
noticed when they're, when they're
giving me flack, right. I
noticed when they're complaining about
our technologies. And so in
many ways, that's part of
the motivation is like getting
the respect from your peers
that, yeah, you're doing a
good job there. You're, you're
building pretty cool products. You
know, I may disagree with
some of the things you're
doing, but I think you
guys are building great products.
And when I, when I
hear that kind of feedback,
that that's really, it makes
me feel good. How is,
how has feedback? This is
kind of a little egotistical
question, just cause I always
wondered, and I never had
the opportunity to ask you,
but what do you think
about the feedback that I
give you when I go
out? I mean, I'm always
in the community and I'm
talking to people and I'm
doing Skype calls all day
and I'm doing screen sharing
all day and I'm trying
to figure out, you know,
I talked to a half
dozen open source projects a
week and I come back
and I say, Phil, and
I'm usually, I'm usually, you
know, excited about it. So
I'm like, this is a
nightmare. Hey, you have to
click twice. Instead of once,
you know, what the hell
are you guys doing over
there? What is feedback from
me or from the field
or from people who were
community, people who are trying
to make it better. How
often do you get frustrated
with me? Where I have
unreasonable expectations? Like, you know
what I'm saying? I think
you know where I'm coming
with them. Yeah. Yeah. Usually
when we get an email
from you, we roll our
eyes and we forward amongst
ourselves and Kevin, a little
snicker. Oh no. Another Hanselman
firestorm. No, I'm, I'm kidding.
Well, we find it really
what, you're only kidding a
little bit. Well, so sometimes
the level of drama, you
know, might be my, my
catch us off guard, but
we definitely, once we cut
through the initial, like, Oh
my God, it's a disaster
and we're all going to
die. And we look at
what the core issue you're
bringing up. I mean, most
of the time we go
and we address it, right.
Or we try to address
it, or we at least
come up with the reason
why we can't yet. And
it's, it's challenging because most
of the times I, you
know, I think you're right.
Or we think, yeah, that
is an issue. And then
there's all these weird circumstances
that prevent us from maybe
fixing it right away or
fixing it ever that you
don't see from the outside.
And, and they're not, they're
things that are out of
our control. And it's not
so much that I want
to make excuses. Right. Like
if I could fix them,
even if it costs a
lot of my time, I'd
go do it. But you
know, let's say it impinges
on some other teams and
then I'd have to deal
with their VP and then,
or, you know, like crazy
things can happen. An example
of something. I, I, I
can't remember exactly what it
was, but it was, it
was literally a subtle interaction
between the ASP net tooling,
T4, PowerShell, comm visuals, duty
out that. And it was
like, it was a subtle
interaction about how all those
things behaved. And it literally
was like, how PowerShell talk
to calm, talk to visual
studio and something would block
for a middle. And I
was just like, this is
an awful experience. And you're
like, Hey man, that's a
bug. That's like, so deep
inside of more door that,
you know, when it gets
done, it gets done. You
know what I mean? And
that's like, that's actually a
great example because sometimes there's
a bug that's in windows
or sometimes it's a bug
in the.net framework. And unfortunately
on the outside, not everyone
understands these what we call
ship trains right there. There's
my Microsoft. Right. We have
these ship trains and some
of them go out every
two years. Some of them
go out every three years.
Some of them go out
every a year. And the
problem is like, people don't
understand why I can't fix
a bug and robbing. Cause
they think, Oh, Radix is
part of the NBC. And
you ship that every year.
Why didn't you fix this
bug? And routing? It was
like, well, routing is actually
part of core asp.net, which
is part of the.net framework.
And that ship when it
shifts and no amount of
me cajoling, anyone will change
that. Right. Like I could,
you know, like I just,
there's nothing I can do.
And that, that's what I
get when I get all
angsty and kind of dramatic,
like, you know what I
mean? But, but, but at
the same time it happens
everywhere. I mean, like I
was T I was talking
to me, I was talking
to Miguel a couple of
months ago about sound drivers.
And I was like, I
finally had a new Boone
to machine that worked completely
perfect. And then they completely
deprecated the sound system. Right.
So the way that they
did sound in a wound
to changed, and then suddenly
my sound card driver wasn't
supported and I haven't had
sound ever since. And it's
like, yeah, it's a little
comforting. I'm not in any
way. Try to have some
shed in Florida against a
boon too. I'm just saying
that everybody's shipped software in
a set a certain certain
way and things break and
you know, maybe, Hey, my
applique, your application sucks. Your
application doesn't have sound well,
actually the core system changed
six months ago. You know
what I mean? But it
does. It does sound like
an equivocation sometimes. Yes, software's
hard and we're constantly trying
to make it better. Right.
And so some of the
things that of having these
monolithic framework releases, imposes its
own problems. And so, you
know, maybe some of the
things that's kind of why
we're going more towards the
out of band model, it
solves some of the problems,
but it can't solve all
Well. That's cool. Well, thanks
so much for, for hanging
out with me today, Phil
and folks can go up
to asp.net. They can click
on downloads. They can get
ASP net MVC three with
the new tooling, NVC scaffolding
is going to be kind
of baked in there. They
can get the new stuff
from Steve Sandestin on new,
get you're going to get
new. Get I asked express
equal compact edition for entity
framework 4.1 code first magic
unicorn edition. You can even
get, you know, jQuery updates
and stuff using new get
now because of some of
the features, we didn't actually
get a chance to talk
about an MVC where when
you go file new project,
there's, pre-installed new get packages.
So updating your scripts as
you can. That's really cool.
It real quick, go ahead
and end on that end.
Why that's such an interesting
thing. Okay. So basically it's
this in MEC summary, we
included jQuery and you know,
where I got this push
to include third party, open
source, JavaScript libraries and, and
work with community on that.
But the problem is by
the time we ship J
queers on a monthly schedule,
by the time NBC ships,
the jQuery library is in
the scripts folder already out
of date. So what we
realize is it would be
really cool if instead of
just copying those things into
the project templates, we have
them as you get packages
and we install them. So
when you create a new
MVC three tools update project,
you'll get those, you'll get
an outdated version of jQuery
in there, but it will
be installed as a new
get package. So if you
launch new, get, and then
you go to the click
on the updates tab, it
will be as easy as
clicking update to go ahead
and update those libraries to
the latest version and down
the road. When all of
them are out of date,
you can, you can easily
update them. And what it
saves you from doing is
having to go look at
the list of script files
and look at the list
of assemblies. We included in
the project template and go
searching, souring the web for
all the new versions and
figuring out have they been
updated? Oh, they're updated. How
do I get them? You
know, where do I download
it? Where to copy it.
You just go in and
click update and it'll update
it for you. So that's
really cool and pretty excited
about that. Very cool. All
right. Well, we're going to
check out all the blogs.
I'm sure Scott guru's keynote
stuff is online by now
and you can go up
and watch it all again.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes. We'll see
you again next week.